There are a few important parts to choosing a motor - you need to figure out how precise you want it, how fast it should be moving, what sort of torque (or acceleration) you want, and how will you control it.  This instructables (Links to an external site.) has a good overview.

From my experience, there are three main classes of motors used in robots: DC motors (Links to an external site.), Stepper motors (Links to an external site.), and Servo Motors  (Links to an external site.)(including hobby servos (Links to an external site.)).  All work by changing the magnetic field to make something turn.  And the quick overview is if you want precision and a lot of torque at low speeds, use a stepper.  If you want precision torque at higher speeds,  use a servo.  In general, mostly I just use what I have handy - and servos tend to be the easiest.  One thing to note is that servos can have a limited range of motion (0 - 180 degrees) or can be continuous - so if you want to use them for wheels, make sure you get the continuous type.

So what are they?  A DC motor is just a system that alternates the polarity of an electromagnet to turn a shaft ( a wee bit boring but nice animation here (Links to an external site.)).  The problems with DC motors are: (1) at startup they do not have much torque - they have to start up and (2) you do not know where you are (i.e. there is nothing measuring rotation).  So you have two choices: (1) put a angle sensor on (optical encoder or potentiometers are usually used) or (2) change the the wiring a bit so that you pulse the power and turn the motor a known distance with each pulse.  The former is a servo motor (Links to an external site.) and the latter is a stepper motor. (Links to an external site.)  If you want advice from a friend of mine, check out Tim  (Links to an external site.)(although he does not talk about steppers).

So how do I know what the motor position is?  Steppers are easy - you count the steps (pulses you send it) and you know the distance it travels per pulse.  This assumes you do not skip steps - that happens if you send the pulses too fast - therefore steppers typically do not go fast.  Servos have encoders built in - so you actually just tell it what position you want.  DC motors need to have some sort of encoder.  Those can be on the shaft (optical (Links to an external site.) or potentiometers (Links to an external site.)) or better is to actually measure the actual position (Links to an external site.).

So how big a motor should I get?  It is best to estimate the torque you would need (how heavy is your robot? how fast do you want to accelerate?) - there is a nice article here (Links to an external site.) or here (Links to an external site.) helping one estimate motor sizes.  I also liked this one (Links to an external site.) for its explanation of harmonic drives and other gearing systems.

How do I control it?  The easiest way is to buy a motor controller board (Links to an external site.) for your particular motor.  In all cases you will have to supply power, ground, and some form of logic.  Steppers will have separate Coil A+, A-, B+, B- ports.  H-bridges (Links to an external site.) are used with DC motors because your controller boards do not supply enough current to turn the motor.

What does the computer do?  In the case of the DC motor (with H-bridge), it sends out pulses (pwm (Links to an external site.)) at regular intervals (usually around 100Hz) and varies the duty cycle to change the speed of  the motor - 100% duty cycle is max power, 0% is not moving and everything in-between is where you have control.  With steppers, the computer sends pulses to the controller board, which then toggles the correct magnets - rotating slightly for each pulse.  For servos, there are different protocols - but the most common is the RC servo - which has you varying the pulse width (Links to an external site.) to determine the servo position (1.5 ms is center position and 1 ms is far left and 2 ms is far right).  They do expect a pulse at least once every 20 ms or so.